.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH tronview 8 "July 2010" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
tronview \- view status of tron jobs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tronview 
.RB "[" "-n "
.IR "numshown" "]"
.RB "[" "--server "
.IR "server_name" "]"
.RB "[" "--verbose" " | " "-v" "]"
.RI "[" "job_name" " | " "job_run_id" " | " "action_run_id" "]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tronview
displays the status of tron scheduled jobs in four tiers. 

.IP "tronview"
all jobs: If no arguments passed, tronview displays all job names,
their schedules, and the last time they completed successfully.

.IP "tronview <job_name>"
runs for a job: If a job name is specified, tronview displays run
instances with the most recent at the top.  For each job run instance,
the job run id, status, scheduled time, start time, and end time are shown.

.IP "tronview <job_run_id>"
actions for a job run: If a job run id is specified, tronview displays all
actions within the job run.  For each action, the action run id, status,
scheduled time, start time and end time are shown.

.IP "tronview <action_run_id>"
action information: If an action run id is specified, tronview displays the
action run id, status, assigned node, and output.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-n numshown"
The maximum number of job runs or lines of output to display(0 for show all). 
Does not affect the display of all jobs and the display of actions for given job
.IP "--server config-file"
The server the tron instance is running on. If no server is specified localhost is used.
.IP --verbose
Displays status messages along the way
.SH EXAMPLES
Here are a few examples that show each tier of tronview

 $ tronview

 Name                 Scheduler            Last Success

 Connected to tron server http://localhost:8082

 Name                 Scheduler            Last Success
 job2                 CONSTANT             2010-08-06 10:40:06.903994
 job1                 DAILY                None
 job0                 INTERVAL:0:00:20     2010-08-06 10:40:00.070011

 ========================================================================================================
 
 $ tronview job0
 Job: job0
 Scheduler: INTERVAL:0:00:20

 List of Actions (topological):
 actionStart
 actionFollow

 Node Pool:
 dev2sv
 dev3sv

 Run History: (4 total)
 Job Run ID                     State  Scheduled Time          Start Time              End Time
 job0.3                         SCHE   2010-08-06 10:43:38     -                       -
 job0.2                         RUNN   2010-08-06 10:43:18     2010-08-06 10:43:18     -
 job0.1                         SUCC   2010-08-06 10:42:58     2010-08-06 10:42:58     2010-08-06 10:43:05
 job0.0                         SUCC   2010-08-06 10:42:38     2010-08-06 10:42:38     2010-08-06 10:42:46

 ========================================================================================================
 
 $ tronview job0.2
 Job Run: job0.2
 State: RUNN
 Node: machine0

 Action Run ID                            State  Scheduled Time          Start Time              End Time
 job0.2.actionStart                       SUCC   2010-08-06 10:43:18     2010-08-06 10:43:18     2010-08-06 10:43:21
 job0.2.actionFollow                      RUNN   -                       2010-08-06 10:43:21     -            

 ========================================================================================================
 
 $ tronview job0.2.actionFollow
 Action Run: job0.2.actionFollow
 State: RUNN
 Node: machine0

 Requirements:
 actionStart
 
 Output:
 actionFollow is printing some stuff to stdout
 
 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH BUGS
Email found bugs to infra@yelp.com
.SH AUTHOR
Matthew Tytel
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR trond (8),
.BR tronctl (8),

