.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH tronctl 1 "July 2010" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
tronctl \- send management commands to jobs and actions within tron
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tronctl
.RB "[" "--server "
.IR "server_name" "]"
.RB "[" "--verbose" " | " "-v" "]"
.I "command" "run_id"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tronctl
is the control interface for tron. Through tronctl you can start,
cancel, succeed, and fail job runs and action runs.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "--server config-file"
The server the tron instance is running on
.IP --verbose
Displays status messages along the way
.SH STATES
.IP SCHE
the run is scheduled for a specific time
.IP RUNN
the run is currently running
.IP SUCC
the run completed successfully 
.IP FAIL
the run failed
.IP QUE
the run is queued behind another run(s) and will start when said runs finish
.IP CANC
the run is cancelled. Does not run at scheduled time and the job run queue ignores the run
.IP UNKWN
the run is in and unknown state.  This state occurs when tron restores a job that was
running at the time of shutdown

.SH COMMANDS
.IP "start <job_name>"
Creates a new run of the specified job. If no other instance is running, it starts

.IP "start <job_run_id | action_run_id>"
Tries to start the given job or action run. An action run starts regardless. A Job run
only starts if no other instance is running.
 Valid states that you can run "start" on: SCHE, FAIL, QUE, CANC, UNKWN
.IP "cancel <job_run_id | action_run_id>"
Cancels the specified job run or action run.
Cancelled runs don't start at their scheduled time and
they are skipped over when there is a job run queue. 
 Valid states that you can run "cancel" on: SCHE, QUE
.IP "succeed <job_run_id | action_run_id>"
Marks the specified job run or action run as succeeded.
This behaves the same as the run actually completing.
Dependant actions are ran and queued runs start.
 Valid states that you can run "succeed" on: SCHE, FAIL, QUE, CANC, UNKWN
.IP "fail <job_run_id | action_run_id>"
Marks the specified job run or action run as failed.
This behaves the same as the job actually failing.
Dependant actions are queued and following jobs are queued or cancelled
 Valid states that you can run "fail" on: SCHE, QUE, CANC, UNKWN
.IP "disable <job_name>"
Disables the specified job. Cancels all scheduled and queued runs. Doesn't
schedule any more.
.IP "enable <job_name>"
Enables the specified job by starting the oldest job that still needs to run
.IP disableall
Disables all jobs
.IP enableall
Enables all jobs
.SH EXAMPLES
Here are a few examples that show the use of tronctl commands

 $ tronctl start job0.2
 Job Run job0.2 now in state RUNN

 $ tronctl cancel job0.3
 Job Run job0.3 now in state CANC

 $ tronctl fail job0.3
 Job Run job0.3 now in state FAIL

 $ tronctl succeed job0.3
 Job Run job0.3 now in state SUCC

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP SOMEDIR
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH BUGS
Email found bugs to yelplabs@yelp.com
.SH AUTHOR
Matthew Tytel
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR trond (8),
.BR tronview (1),

