.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH tronview 1 "July 2010" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
tronview \- view status of tron jobs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tronview 
.RB "[" "-n "
.IR "numshown" "]"
.RB "[" "--server "
.IR "server_name" "]"
.RB "[" "--verbose" " | " "-v" "]"
.RI "[" "job_name" " | " "job_run_id" " | " "action_run_id" "]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tronview
displays the status of tron scheduled jobs and services.

.IP "tronview"
Show all configured jobs and services

.IP "tronview <job_name|service_name>"
Shows details for specied job or service.
    Ex: tronview my_job

.IP "tronview <job_run_id|service_instance_id>"
Show details for specific run or instance
    Ex: tronview my_job.0


.IP "tronview <action_run_id>"
Show details for specific action run
    Ex: tronview  my_job.0.my_action

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-n numshown"
The maximum number of job runs or lines of output to display(0 for show all). 
Does not affect the display of all jobs and the display of actions for given job
.IP "--server config-file"
The server the tron instance is running on. If no server is specified localhost is used.
.IP --verbose
Displays status messages along the way
.IP --version
Show version
.IP "-z, --hide-preface"
Don't display preface header information
.IP "-c, --color"
Display color highlights
.IP "-o, --stdout"
Show only stdout for specified action run
.IP "-e, --stderr"
Show only stderr for specified action run
.IP "-w, --warn"
Display warnings and errors for all jobs

.SH "JOB STATES"
Jobs will be described with the following states
.IP ENABLED
Scheduled and ready to go
.IP DISABLED
No job runs scheduled
.IP RUNNING
Job run currently in progress
.SH "JOB RUN STATES"
.IP SCHE
The run is scheduled for a specific time
.IP RUNN
The run is currently running
.IP SUCC
The run completed successfully 
.IP FAIL
The run failed
.IP QUE
The run is queued behind another run(s) and will start when said runs finish
.IP CANC
The run is cancelled. Does not run at scheduled time and the job run queue ignores the run
.IP UNKWN
The run is in and unknown state.  This state occurs when tron restores a job that was
running at the time of shutdown
.SH "SERVICE STATES"
.IP STARTING
The service has been started. The service will remain in this state until the first monitor interval runs.
.IP UP
The service is running normally, all instances were available during the last monitor period
.IP DEGRADED
One or more instances of the service are unexpectedly not available.
.IP FAILED
All instances of the service are unexpectedly unavailable.
.IP DOWN
 Service has been stopped
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH BUGS
Email found bugs to yelplabs@yelp.com
.SH AUTHOR
Rhett Garber
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR trond (8),
.BR tronctl (1),
.BR tronfig (1),

